---
layout: post
title: The Twist
description: We love the twist.
---
**We love to be entertained.**

Have you noticed that great stories are full of twists?

Here's an example from Roald Dahl's wonderful book, *James and the Giant Peach.*

  - James is a happy boy.
  - James' parents get eaten by a rhinoceros.
  - James goes to live with his abusive aunts on a hill.
  - A strange man gives James magic seeds.
  - James accidentally drops the seeds and they burrow into the dirt.
  - A giant peach grows on an old, dead peach tree.
  - James crawls inside the peach and meets giant bug friends.
  - The peach is set free from the hill and rolls into the sea.
  - Sharks attack the peach.
  - James ties the peach to seagulls and flies into the sky with his friends.
  - James and friends see magic cloud-men making hail.
  - James and friends crash into a rainbow.
  - The ropes tying the peach to the seagulls are severed by an airplane.
  - The peach crashes onto the empire state building.

Each point above represents a twist in the storyline, something we couldn't anticipate.  (This is actually a simplified synopsis of the story btw.  There are more twists than this).

**Dahl holds our attention because his tale twists unexpectedly.**

Now that I'm aware of the twist design pattern, I see it in every great story, not just the ones for children. Take the Cohen Brothers incredible movie, *No Country For Old Men.*

  - While hunting, Llewelyn finds a bunch of dead guys and some money. One guy is still barely alive. Llewyn leaves with the money.
  - Llewelyn returns to the scene later that night (to finish off the barely alive guy?).
  - Suddenly, two men show up and start chasing Llewyn.  Llewyn barely escapes, leaving his truck at the scene.
  - A hitman comes after Lleweyn, who goes on the run.
  - There is an electronic tracking device in the money.  The hitman finds Llewyn in a roadside hotel.

This is just the beginning of the film and the tale is already twisting unexpectedly!  **We don't want to hear stories that plod along in a straight line.**

A good story has more than *just* twists of course - lush descriptions, humor, vivid characters and so forth.  The overall twisting contour is what ties all these sub-elements together and keeps us along for the ride.

**Do you have ideas?  Consider weaving them together with twists the next time you seek someone's attention.**

We love to be entertained and we love twists.
