---
layout: post
title: Tension
description: There's beauty in tension.
comments: true
---
Tension is the glue, the gravity of our lives.  Tension is ever-present.  Without tension, we'd fall apart.

Too much tension can harm us.  When we are too tense for too long our health suffers.  Our thinking suffers too.

There is a certain beauty in tension.  Books, shows and movies use tension in their plots. A premise is set up with conflict.  The tension builds and builds until it's released (usually at the end of the story).  This pattern exists in nearly every story we tell.

**It's the tension that keeps us along for the ride.**

There is tension and release in music, paintings and great speeches.  Without tension, the audience loses interest.

There have been tense circumstances in my life these past few days. I have felt the pressure building.  It's tempting to fight against that tension, but that only wears me out, makes me weak.

If I close my eyes, breathe deeply and watch the tension, I see form.  I see beautiful patterns.  I can see that tension is always shifting, changing shape.

I have written several songs these past few days, and they've come out very easily (usually a sign that they're keepers). Tension allows me to tap into the hopes, fears and beauty beneath the surface of everyday life.

**Tension breeds art.**  

In college,  I wrote lots of songs during finals week, when I had plenty to do.  Deadlines + Exams + Papers = Tension.  Tension is a great conduit for the creative process.  When I finished my last exam, the tension was released and I'd have a handful of new songs to sing.

Everything is in flux.

Chronic tension kills us.

Temporary tension helps us thrive.

**It takes pressure to make diamonds.**
