---
layout: post
title: Noise
description:  No more noise than is necessary.
comments: true
---
I've written about [brevity](/carving-the-block) and [less-is-more](/simplicity) here.

The internet has valuable information, but there is so much noise that it can be hard to find what we need.

As I go back over my [Book Notes](/book-notes) and add them to this site, they seem noisier than they should be.

I took notes on these books so I could go back and review them periodically.  As I re-read these book notes now, I'm struck by how noisy they are.  I've edited them down, but some still seem too long.

Maybe that's the nature of the beast in some cases.  Books like [The Art of Unix Programming](/book-notes/the-art-of-unix-programming) are dense. Still, my brain was glazing over midway through these notes.  This means I had to either come back for a second reading or miss out on the latter part of the notes. Neither option seems optimal.

Perhaps a reasonable goal is to edit these notes so I can read them comfortably in a single sitting. Rather than trying to remember *every* salient point from the book, I'll be looking for the ones that resonate the most with me.  I can't have it all.

A simple heuristic is to **cut by default**.  If there's any question about whether something is helping, cut it.

In that spirit, I'll be reviewing these book notes multiple times to chisel away any  extraneous noise.

What's useful info and what's noise?  This is a subjective question, but we must remove noise if we want to be heard clearly. We tend to say [too much](/love-your-audience) in general.

My current working principle:

**No more noise than is necessary. When in doubt, cut it.**
