---
layout: post
title: Love
description: I want more love in my life.
comments: true
---
I want more love in my life.

I've been blogging for nearly a year.  Through writing, I've learned about myself.  I've learned that I think a lot about process, creativity and relationships.  I've learned that I can improve just by setting clear intentions.

I've learned that these posts are essentially a projection of my hopes, which have boiled down to these three things.

  - I want to do rewarding work.
  - I want to live in good health.
  - I want to connect and have rewarding relationships.

I've written about working and living healthily. The relationships piece manifested out of the health piece.

Now the relationships piece is leading me to realize this: **I want more love in my life, and it's up to me live more lovingly, if I want to get it.**

I haven't written much about love here.  Maybe it's been too daunting. Maybe it's been a blind spot.  Maybe I've been scared.  Maybe I thought the topic would be too cheesy.  Regardless of the reasons, I can now clearly see that there is room for more love in my life.

There is so much out there beyond me, beyond my goals and desires of becoming a kickass achiever.  Achieving isn't necessarily going to make me feel fulfilled when I'm on my deathbed.

Love is **the** way to connect, to live richly, to raise the quality of my life and those around me.

**I'll be writing the next ten blog posts on love or love-related themes.**  I hope that doing so will make me more intentional about love in my daily life and bring more love to those around me.

I want more love in my life.
